Rewrite ICANN validation article to focus on domain validation in general (#1665)
dnsimple/dnsimple-support: content/articles/icann-domain-validation.md

excerpt: Learn about domain validation requirements and how to verify your registrant contact information.
meta: Understand domain validation requirements, verification processes, and how to ensure your domain contact information is properly validated to avoid suspension.
categories:
  - Domains
---

# Domain Validation Requirements

### Table of Contents {#toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

---

Domain registries and organizations that oversee domain name registrations require validation of your registrant email address whenever a new domain is registered or your registrant email address or name is changed. This validation helps ensure the accuracy of contact information in the domain registration database and protects domain owners from unauthorized changes.

For most top-level domains, validation is required by [ICANN](https://www.icann.org/) (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) as part of their [RDDS Accuracy program](https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/rdds-2013-02-28-en). Failure to validate your registrant email address results in suspension of the domain name after 15 days of non-compliance.

## How domain validation emails work

> When you make a change to your registrant's email address or name, you'll be presented with a confirmation screen that tells you whether the change locks any of your domains for transfer, and that you may have to verify the change by email. Shortly after, you'll receive a verification email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you register a new domain or make a change to your registrant's email address or name, you'll be presented with a confirmation screen that tells you whether the change locks any of your domains for transfer, and that you may have to verify the change by email. Shortly after, you'll receive a verification email.
```
